ORC format: optimized row column format. If u create a hive table, we can store data in ORC format.
it is a file format provides a highly effiient way to store hive data.
Helps with analytical column, as analytical queries are column format.

OLAP is not exposed to public, it is data warehousing.
OLTP is RDBMS format.

Parquet format: similar to ORC. column level compression format.
Big data can be stored in Parquet format. You cannot open a Parquet file with text editor.

extension will be .parquet.

val df = sqlContext.read.parquet("HFDS data location")

df.show()
df.count()  //to see the total number of rows in the DF

***language integrated queries: i.e. we can use scala on top of data frame.

val df1 = df.select("firstName","year")
val df1 = df.select("firstName").distinct.count

//find 5 most popular names in 1880
(df.filter(df("year") === "1880").filter(df("gender") === "F").orderBy(df("Total").desc,df("firstName")).select("FirstName").limit(5).show

u can also alias df. with $

SPARKSQL is better than Spark Core.....Spark core 1.3 and before, there is no optimizer.
SparkSQL will use a catalyst optimizer to run the SQL query.

@mukesh- please refer the below link, it will help u in getting more info on spark sql                                        https://spark.apache.org/docs/1.5.2/sql-programming-guide.html

SQL and language integrated queries is same as both use catalyst optimizer.

from Priyabrata Mohanty to All Participants:
Raghu in my company in different projects, they use Spark but also they use ETL tool like Abinitio and HIVE QL.. I dont know why do they do that if we can use SPARK SQL. I m not a ETL guy so I donno

An. real use case is, if u run ETL jobs, SPARLSQL is faster...reason to use Hive, is they are not using interactive datasets.

Partitions and bucketing is not supported in SparkSQL.

XML: root tag and row tag, then only u can read in Spark SQL


-----------------
from Deviprasad Shetty to All Participants:
In our hadoop project we have LZ(Loading Zone),Landing Zone,SZ(Staging Zone)
RZ(Reporting Zone).
how this will be in SPARK?

An. Zone concept is connected to a data lake architecture(ex, EDL)
	for loading, we use Kafka, Spark we use in last stage when visualizing the data
	
-----------------
Reading MySQL tables into SparkSQL

from UpX Academy to All Participants:
@parag- there is no difference in execution in cloudx lab and cloudera vm. Commands remain same for both the platforms. The only difference will be path u mentioned while reading the input and storing the output as cloudx lab has /home/your_username, /user/your_username as the linux and HDFS paths respectively 

Spark context is local to your program. i.e. on SC cannot be used across programs

It is important that you stop the sparkContext else it will keep consuming resource. SC can be stopped by sc.stop.

does this apply for SQLContext too? if u stop Sc context, oit internally kills SQLContext, HiveContext and streaming context.

---
TO set properties for using MySQL to SparkSQL  - in Screenshots


-----------------
Hive connectivity

SaveMode: if u r writind data to Hive/JDBC, we use SaveMode i.e. allow to save data via
append
replace
if not exists

Without Save mode, you cannot store data in Hive

Thrift server*****: thrift is a protocol used to accept JDBC connection. i.e. u have to connect to Thrift server
					to access Hive tables.
					
@SP: Thrift is an RPC framework for building cross-platform services. Its stack consists of 4 layers: Server, Transport, Protocol, and Processor

ORC stands for Optimized Row columnar format
from Ram to All Participants:
Optimized Row Columnar (ORC) file format provides a highly efficient way to store Hive data
from UpX Academy to All Participants:
@SP - thrift server is an improved version of hive server and supports multi-client authentication. It is used as remote procedure call(RPC)

from Sukanta to All Participants:
@subhro - copying hive-site.xml is kind of mandatory  - because - If HiveContext does not find a hive-site.xml file in the classpath, it creates the metastore_db and
warehouse directories in the current directory. Therefore, you could end up with multiple copies of these
directories if you launch a Spark SQL application from different directories. To avoid this, it is recommended
to add hive-site.xml file to Spark’s conf directory if you use HiveContext. But I am not sure if this will allow us to bypass thrive
from Narein R S to All Participants:
upx/raghu even in hive there is no procedures like in sql ...which means its only for gettin output 
from UpX Academy to All Participants:
anil- data is already uploaded on lms under class material section, please have a look
from Vasu to All Participants:
Raghu, how we can use SPARK for OLTP reporting?

-----------------------------------------------------
DAY2
-----------------------------------------------------
Kafka: distributed publish-subscribe (producers pulish and consumers subscribe to get data) messaging system
Kafka is fast, scalable (cluster can be expanded), durable (replication within Kafka)

Kafka originated in Linkedin. Implemented in Scala (and some Java)

data pipeline is connection from client (machine running application) to source (of data).

if multiple clients are fetching data from source using 1 connection each,
it is waste of network bandwitth as each application has to maintain its own connection

kafka will be installed as a separate distributed cluster.

Producers (Source System i.e. producing data ex, social sites like twitter) -> 
Kafka (brokers,machine who can hold data in kafka) -> consumers (data warehouse, real time monitoring, hadoop ex, client/application)

Hi Raghu, in conventional MQ, we usually face issues like stalls...does Kafka also have the same issues?
Yes...ideally it should not happen.

Kafka is usually used as real time processing engine i.e. streaming data analysis (no storage to process data)

NOTE:Kafka is not a developers tool.

Kafka core concepts (see screenshot)

Topic (is abstraction of data) refers to queue. In Kafka, u have to create topic and it is used to transfer data between producers
and consumer.

communications between client and servers happen via TCP protocol.

Zookeeper (open source apache clusterto maintain metadata ) is used to store metadata of a Kafka cluster.

We can set the length and expiration of a topic.

NEVER use Kafka for permanent storage.

In Kafka, we cannot read from/write to from Replicas. This is unlike Hadoop.

from Shreesha kumar to All Participants:
Does kafka use in memory technology or disk to store data? Yes it stores in disk, but can be configured to use memory.

In ideal condition, no of brokers  = no of nodes.

Size of a topic is unlimited, retention is decided upon. We do not permmanently store to Kafka.

In cloudx lab, Kafka is pre-installed. In cloudera VM, it is not installed.

(In chat)nano is an editor like vi

---------
from UpX Academy to All Participants:
@all- how to use kafka in cloudx lab
from UpX Academy to All Participants:
https://youtu.be/DiBwxzM9aAo?t=3
from UpX Academy to All Participants:
@all- spark streaming hands on
from UpX Academy to All Participants:
https://youtu.be/QTpDi1_yuVQ

--------
@panduranga- yes, I mean in each producer command, consumer command u can specify only single topic name. If u want to work with some topic, u need to different producer or consumer to it

-------
Spark Streaming:

Analyzing data at rest or Historical data analysis : analytics on stored data
Streaming data analytsis: analytics on streams of moving/realtime data. No intention to store data

Hi Raghu, what is the difference between streaming data and micro batch data?
On web, it usually mentions using spark streaming for micro batch data analytics.

Apache Storm, flink also used for real time streaming.

Producer data is not stored when we are doing streaming data analysis.

Drawbacks of streaming is one receiver, so if machine running receiver crashes, we will miss data.

This is where kafka helps (check screenshots)

Receiver is not controlled by YARN, only the driver is known to YARN. So if receiver goes down, the application fails.

do we write different interface program to get data from different producer and configure in kafka ?
no programming in Kafka, we only need to create a topic.

so we have 2 clusters here one for kafka  and other for spark which sits on top of mayve HDFS? Yes

offset pointer is maintained in reciever? NO, it is maintained in zoo keeper.

from varun to All Participants:
I have seen architecture where we pull raw data using kafka into HDFS cluster and then using spark streaming and 
saprk sql we do cleansing and then use that data for analytics. Is this a typical use case

Dstreams are abstractions i.e. a cooolection of RDDs that belong to a certain timeperiod.
We write logic on DStream which is applied on all RDDs

Define Receiver (which accpts data at time internals) -> forms DStream (collection of RDDs)
-> the logic Spark Stream will apply to all RDDs

can we use spark sql on the Dstreams? in Spark 1.6, it is not possible, but in Spark 2 there is structured streaming
to do this.

Batch interval (1min): when u want to stream ur data. u will get 1 sec work data
Slide interval (2min) and window interval (3min): every 2 secs u will process data, for WI, every 3 secs u will process data.
check screenshots

where do we define this intervals? when setting up the program. By default we only look into batch interval

available in https://1drv.ms/u/s!AtV-5jVwECQxg907t9Crlfd7UVU03A




















