kubernetes set up:
Minikube for single node K cluster
Kops for high availability cluster on aws
Kubeadm for secure multi node cluster


Steps to install K on a cluster via Kubadm:
1) to install K, you also have to install Docker (on Master and all minions).
   If we are trying to install K on VM, atleast 2 instances of VM should be created, one for master and other for minions.

2) For K, install the following packages (i.e. components) on master and all minions:
	1) Kubeadm : bootstrap the cluster. 
	2) Kubelet : for installing and maintaining PODs.
	3) Kubectl : CLI Util to interact with cluster.
	

3) Initialize the master node. This requires to deploy the network (i.e. Container Network Interface for kubeadm).
   There are multiple CNI networks like flannel, Canal, Calico etc. CNI network is synonym for POD network. 
   NOTE: for single node cluster, this step is not required. For multi node, this step is done only on master node.
   i.e. single node : sudo kubeadm init
        multi node : sudo kubeadm init --pod-network-cidr=10.244.0.0/16
		
4) Once the cluster has been initialized, we get a join token. example,
	kubeadm join --token <.....>
	we can use this join whenever we are joining a new minion to the cluster.
	
	To start cluster, one needs to do following,
	On master node,
	a) copy admin.conf as regular user to /config in $HOME.
	b) sudo chown i.e. change ownership 
	
	On worker, run the join token command
	
	On mAster, run 'kubectl get nodes' to see nodes which joined the cluster.
	
	the result of nodes is STATUS = 'NotReady'. We need to apply the flannel or other CNI network on 
	master and worker node to start communiczation between nodes.
	command : kubectl apply -f <location/bube-flannel.yml>

	With this, all pods will start going to "Running" state and then only the nodes will be in "Ready" status.

	kubectl get pods //will show all pods that are specifically created by user.
	kubectl get pods --all-namespaces //all pods present in cluster.
	
	Note: check kube-dns is running to imply nodes are in proper running state.
	
	kubectl cluster-info //identifies the nodes in a cluster.
	
----------------------------------------------

   

